
Freedom

	There was a particular handler called Vardoc who picked me out as his special pet and I was the first to try out his newest instruments of pain. We’d been locked in a contest for years; he kept trying to break me and I wouldn’t give him the satisfaction.

Rage 

	Dark mirror of memory… hope… death… defeat.

		I climb down a shaft and run through blood-slick tunnels, searching. I find Vardoc with his whip still clenched in his dead hand and it stays in his grip when I cut his hand off. I tie them to my waist.
		My hands bleed the long climb up.
		
	Dark dreams beyond counting.

Alone

	We were pulling back in teams of two after a raid on a village and I wondered aloud, “Why do they fight?” I wasn’t expecting an answer but my partner drew close, “Perhaps to protect their homes.” I didn’t understand, “Home?” She glanced at me with sadness in her eyes, “Home is your family.” I still didn’t understand, “Family?” “Those you love.” “Love?” We walked on in thoughtful silence for a moment and her eyes were distant when she answered quietly, “It’s something worth dying for.” We continued walking then she paused and put a hand on my shoulder, “Worth living for.”

War

	A man was sitting next to me staring into his knife and I was wondering what he was seeing in it when he brought it up as if in salute; etched into the polished metal was an image of a woman. It was then that I saw the deep cut in his side, a deadly wound. I looked around for a medic because it looked like there was still time to save him but help was nowhere in sight. He was hanging on to life with all he had and the sad hunger in his eyes as he stared into his blade helped me understand what a warrior-slave told me once about love; the dying man was living for his mate.	

Search

	I was mercing on an ice world and the fighting was going against us. I lay for cover beside a dying man who spoke of home, a woman waiting for him and their dreams. There were tears in his eyes; I didn’t understand, “Why do you cry?” “Because she will when I don’t come home.” “Why?” “We love each other,” he whispered. When he died I took his head even though he wasn’t my kill and every night while we were on that planet I sat in my tent staring at his face, remembering the need in his eyes. I began to long for something in my life that I could care about, that would make me hunger for life more than I hungered to kill.

Strange Days

	The Akkina learned fast and, within a month, I had a fighting force that repelled the invaders with minimal loss of life. The night the last invading ship left, fires were lit all around the world and the celebration began. Wine was passed around and, as the Akkina were singing and dancing, I started feeling strange, like I was being watched. Voices whispered in my head that I almost understood and, when I fell asleep, I drifted into a dream.
		Ships in the sky... 
		People drop from them on ropes.
		Warriors with Galach eyes fight before a grove of trees.
		The fallen are taken up into the ships and flown away.
	
Flying

	I took to The Raptor and traveled. I didn’t care where I went or what I did as long as I was as far away from that fraggin’ old man as I could get. I visited many worlds with one question in mind, “Could I care for this land enough to die for it?” Many places touched me but none changed my life. I met many women; some made me wonder if I could make a home with them but I found no one I would share my life with.
	
Hunger

	Endless water...
	
	The boat calls and I struggle to wait for the presence. Its call grows in intensity until it becomes too strong to resist. I start for the boat then an overpowering hunger makes me hesitate. I wait, watching for the presence to show itself as I fight the boat’s pull. A man appears in the distance, too far to see clearly. As he approaches I’m drawn to him. I’m torn, him... the boat... the need to hold myself together. When he’s close enough I look at him carefully. I’ll never forget him.
	
	The tearing becomes unbearable. I need to return but I don’t know why; the sea is inviting. I was born to war but I no longer have a taste for it. I have no mate, no home. I’m almost at my end when I hear Kadiza’s whisper, “Love is worth dying for... worth living for.” I don’t know love but I hunger for it.
	
	I fall into darkness…
	
Much to Do

	Most of the crew of the Kwegazi had blood-red eyes, the raiding party, too. I asked one of them where he came from. “Elen Tolit,” he answered, I’d never heard of it. He must have seen my ignorance because he eyed me suspiciously and observed, “You haven’t been a slaver long.” “Merc,” was my explanation, which was enough for him. He nodded and his look turned to pride, “Elen Tolit is a slaver world, the greatest.” I got to the point, “Ever sold to Septra?” His suspicion returned, “Why?” I gave him a greedy look, “I hear they pay top for fighters.” The hardness left his eyes and he returned my avaricious smile, “We’ve grown rich off Septra.”
	
	When the slaving party went out I killed them and the crew, cut off the heads of everyone with red eyes and piled them up outside their ship.
	
Moonpath

	As I was reaching out to knock on Mae’s door she opened it and all I could think to say was, “Mae...” I was unable to read her face as she watched me in silence a moment then she asked in a tone I didn’t understand, “Paintr… What brings you here?” I hesitated then, looking deeply into her eyes, I answered, “I came to see you,” hoping she wouldn’t see my fear and unsure if I could keep it hidden. “I’m going for a walk,” she said finally and asked if I’d care to join her. I wondered what her look meant when I said, “I’d like that.” We walked together in silence then, after a time, I asked her where we were going. Her gaze was beyond the horizon when she murmured, “Following the moonpath.” We walked with our thoughts, following the track of the moon along a wooded path, until we came to a beach where the warm moonglow laid out an amber blanket on the sand and played in the water. Mae dropped her clothes and waded through the radiance until it covered her shoulders; I went to her. Her honey-gold hair flowed around us and her limpid, sea-grey eyes shone in the soft gilded light. I gently wrapped my arms around her, turned a deaf ear to my fears and whispered, “Mae, I love you.”
	
Retribution

	That night, I dreamed of the caves again. I was standing over a dead man with his bloody head in my hand. I picked it up and walked away with a deep sense of an injustice repaid.
	
	The dream haunted me for days and, when I could, I put it on canvas.
	
Revenge

	I was drinking somewhere on Trader’s Hand late one night after Niegaf sent me a contract when the door swung open and I looked up from my thoughts; I thought the deliriums were starting again because the dead woman from the med unit walked into the bar. I couldn’t take my eyes off her. She looked at me and I stared into the most beautiful gray eyes I’d ever seen; they reminded me of a wild, wind-swept sea. She started toward me and spoke, “May I help you?” Her voice was gentle waves. I kept staring at her because I didn’t know what to say and she spoke again with an edge of danger in her voice, “Something you want?” I couldn’t look away then my vision shoved me, dropped her hand to the sakin on her hip and gruffly ordered, “Find somewhere else to look.”. Her push shook me back into reality and I smiled apologetically, “Sorry, you look like someone else.” She gave me a little smile, “She must have made quite an impression. A lost love?” I didn’t know why I was talking about it, “I didn’t know her; she was dead the last time I saw her.” She gave me a sympathetic look, said, “I can understand your confusion,” and moved on. I felt a strange sense of loss when she left and, that night, I had a haunting dream. The man and woman from the med unit were surrounded by a group of armed people with blood-red eyes. They were outnumbered in the fight that started, the woman fell and her sword flew up into the air. When the man saw the sword he cut his way to her side and was killed, too. 
	
Birth of Freedom

	“About nine years had passed when a woman was brought in with a shard of ore stuck in her shoulder. As I was treating her she whispered, ‘I know you healer; you were chosen by the warrior. I was in the birthing cell next to hers and heard her cry, “It’s a boy, Aedan.” It wasn’t the last time I heard her cry; she was also in the infant cell next to mine. It was about seven years later and my daughter was taken from me to work in the mines. While I was grieving for my child I heard guards talking outside the warrior’s door. “What about this one?” one of them asked. The other voice answered, “No, runt. Next.” I didn’t have to see who was talking; I knew Vardoc’s voice all too well. A moment later I heard a shout from your mate’s cell, “Get out, scum!” Vardoc growled, “I choose, I get.” I barely heard her say, “Touch me and die.” It got quiet then I heard Vardoc howl in pain and after, the snap of his whip. I didn’t hear a sound from her while the whip kept cracking then she shouted, “We are Galloglach!” Shortly after, Vardoc was talking with someone outside her door. The new voice asked why the warrior woman was dead and Vardoc answered, “She try kill me; I kill her.”‘“
	
Abyss

	That night I had one of my worst dreams yet.
	
		I run through blood-slick tunnels searching for Vardoc’s whip. Hands reach out from the rock, clawing at me, and faces push out of them, screaming. I come to a dead end and can’t turn back because the grasping hands tear at me and pin me against the wall. I break free of them and start to climb. The hands keep pulling at me but I keep going. Blood from my torn hands runs down my arm and drips into my eyes but I don’t stop until I can no longer hold on. I find a ledge to rest on and the hands stop reaching for me. I hear a sound and someone falls past me.
		
		I stare down into Mae’s sad, grey eyes until she’s swallowed up by the dark abyss.
		
	 I jerked awake and wearily faced another day. I wasn’t going to turn back; I believed that the answers to my nightmares were in those mines. 
	 
Strange Brew

	“Time and chance are the only things that might bring you together.” He gave me a glimmer of hope, “You’ll know her if you see her and the longer you live the more likely your paths will cross.” “Chance could be a long way off,” I said, losing hope. Before I could express further doubts my father said, “I have the potion that stopped me from aging. Do you want to take it?” I was about to say yes when he added, “She’ll grow old while you remain unchanged. She’ll die and you’ll continue to live on.” “Or she could take the potion too,” I murmured. I didn’t need to think about it, I needed Mae, “Give it to me.”
	
		I stand on the shore of the Otherworld and when I feel the pull of the boat I’m torn away. I fight for focus as images fly past me, then I fall into madness.
		
		~ ∴ ~ 
		
		I awake to a dream of war. The enemy is a horror... brutal, reeking of death. One war follows another. I’m swept away in an eternity of bloodshed and my mind struggles for a hold on reality.
		
		~ ∴ ~ 

		Mae’s beautiful grey eyes fill my vision but there is no recognition in them.
		
	I heard my father’s voice, “Paintr,” and I looked at him... he was gray... everything was gray. I thought I was still dreaming until my father shook me, “Paintr!” I took his hand off me, clearly I was awake. He stared at me and murmured, “Your eyes have turned gray... the whites, the pupils, everything.”
	
The Gallery

	Living in that empty inn where Mae and I died was a nightmare until I thought of something about us; we were about growth and didn’t stagnate because every day was a new day for us to share. We lived in the moment; the past was a memory and there was no promise of the future. Life was exciting and our love was ecstasy. I couldn’t let that die so I turned the inn where we died into a gallery… a light for Mae in the darkness, a place of memory and life.
	
Freedom’s End

		I don’t know how long I sail that still sea; the sun doesn’t move and the sea doesn’t change. I fall asleep and awake to the darkness of a violent storm. The tiller is swinging out of control. I take it and try to steer through the driving wind. The fight to keep the boat under control goes on for a long time then I hear water crashing on rocks. It’s too dark to see them and I think I might run up on them. Suddenly, a distant light pierces the darkness. I wonder if it’s a beacon and make for it. The churning sea is about to dash me on the rocks when the light reveals a narrow passage that my boat can just pass through. I’m almost past the rocks when a wave lifts me up and is about to slam me down into them.
		
	I gazed into Mae’s eyes. “Just as I was about to be dashed to pieces, the moon broke through the clouds and shone a path onto a beach, revealing a woman with a lantern in her hands. I couldn’t see her very clearly but I know who she is because the last thing I heard before I woke up was her call, “Sáraigh!” Mae rested her head on my shoulder and I wrapped my arms around her with a whispered, “No matter what happens, love, even death can’t keep us apart… I will always look for you and I will always find you. We are one you and I.” We whispered, “Forever,” together and waited for what the light would bring.